For region, Here I will choose, Mumbai.

Yeah, please note that You can set the geographic location at creation time only.

After a dataset has been created, the location and name becomes immutable and can't be changed.

If you want to rename the dataset or want it in a new location then either you have

to copy it to the new location or manually create a fresh one in the same way we are

doing it now.

Then we have default table expiration which specifies that any new table in this dataset

will be deleted after how many days.

we have 2 options for it.

Never and Number of days after table creation If you select Never then Tables created in

the dataset are never automatically deleted.

You must delete them manually.

If you select the second one then the tables in this dataset will be deleted after the

provided number of days.

You can even set table expiration time when you create a table.

If you set the expiration in table creation part, then this dataset's table expiration

is ignored.

And, If you do not set a table expiration, neither at the dataset level and nor at table

level, then the table never expires and you must delete it manually.

Last is this encryption.

As you know data is encrypted in the cloud so you have 2 ways to encrypt.

Either let Google handle it by its own key or if want your data to get encrypted by your

algorithms then you have to provide its key here.

I will keep it to google managed key.

So the summary is that all the tables that I will create under this dataset will be stored

in Mumbai location.

They will never be deleted automatically, and the tables data will be encrypted by google.

Create dataset.

See it got listed under your project.

Now talking a little about the dataset quotas and limits.

Even though you can create unlimited number of datasets per project but as you approach

thousands of datasets in a project, dashboard’s performance begins to degrade, and listing

datasets becomes slower.

Number of tables in a dataset are also unrestricted but as you approach 50,000 or more tables

in a dataset, enumerating them becomes slower.

Moreover, Currently, the BigQuery web UI allows you to display only 50,000 tables per dataset.

Next, You can add maximum 2,500 authorized views to a dataset's access control list.

That’s it.

Guys this was just 1 operation on dataset i.e. its creation but there are other operations

also that can be performed with datasets like Copying datasets, updating dataset’s properties,

controlling its access and others.

I have covered it all in the course.

